README.md, before:

- [Pully](#pully)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
  - [Core design guidelines](#core-design-guidelines)
  - [Future ideas](#future-ideas)
  - [Ideas tested but not working](#ideas-tested-but-not-working)


# Pully
Get an overview of PR statuses in slack in a high-paced environment.

This is a CI job that constantly updates one minimal slack message in a single channel per PR. 

This is self-contained in the repo, and required no extra running services if you are using Github (and could be easily extended to Gitlab/other Git vendors with a CI platform).

## Getting started
1. Create a dedicated slack channel for pully to post to, note down its channel ID. You can find this by opening the slack channel in your browser. The URL should have format `something.slack.com/client/<clientid>/<channelid>`
2. Generate a slack token with permission to write to this channel, and nothing else preferrably (not read either).
3. Configure your repo's secrets:
    - `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`: The channel id of the channel you made in step 1.
    - `PULLY_SLACK_TOKEN`: The slack token with permission to post to only `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`, that you made in step 2.
4. Create an orphan branch called `pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding` by running `git checkout --orphan pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding`, this is where pully will stash its state. 
\
\
It's important that any branch protection rules allows GITHUB_TOKEN to write to this branch. **Note that the state is readable for everyone if this is a public repo.** The info present in the state is:
    - Name of the github repository (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - Pull request numbers in the repository (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - The message timestamp of the original slack message per pr (not considered sensitive. You cant do anything with this timestamp without read/write permission to the slack channel, and you need to know the slack channel)
    - Any provided github usernames
    - (Optional): The first name and the slack ID of github authors. **This will only be part of the state if committed to the state in step 5**
5. (Optional, omitting this will lead to github usernames being posted) Commit the initial `.pully/userconfig.json` to your project's default branch (typically main), where you specify optional information about the authors. If you do not wish to share this information, the only effect is that the slack message wont @-mention requested reviewers, and we will use github usernames instead of first names when reporting approvals and change requests. 
```
{
  "known_authors": [
    {
      "githubUsername": "kristoffer-monsen-bulder",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris",
      "slackmoji": ":+1:"
    },
    {
      "githubUsername": "N35N0M",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris",
      "slackmoji": ":+1:"
    }
  ]
}
```
6. Add the pully github action to the `.github/workflows` folder of your repo's main branch. An example is found in this repos self-test, `pully/.github/workflows/pully.yml`. Replace the self-test commit SHA with a github release tag (or its SHA, to guarantee that the content doesnt change): https://github.com/N35N0M/pully/tags
7. Create a new PR, the pully github action should run when you create the PR and post to your slack channel.

## Core design guidelines
- One slack message per unique PR
  - If title changes: Edit the original slack message
  - If title is longer than 100 characters: truncate title in slack message
- Line format: `<branch state emoji> <Repo fullname> <PR title> <PR link displayed as repo/pr-number> (<line diff>) by <author nickname (no @mention)> [| <Approved emoji> [... list of approver firstnames]] [| <Changes requested emoji> [... list of change requester firstnames]] [| <Review requested emoji [... list of reviewers]>]`
    - Why branch state emoji: breaks up text, and gives a quick overview of what is open and closed in a dense list of PR messages.
    - Why repo fullname? Need to know which repo it happens in. Not all reviewers are neccesarily familiar with all repos.
    - Why PR title and link? Need to know what the PR is about, and easily access it.
    - Why linediff? Gives potential reviewers idea of how large the PR is, and how low hanging it is.
    - Why author? Give kudos
    - Why approve list? Make it clear if the PR has been approved, and by who
    - Why change request list? Make it clear that the PR is blocked by requested changes, and by whom it was requested
    - Why list of review requests? Give review requests a slack notification the first time, to make it clear that action is required

- Communicate PR status with strikethrough:
    - Active: no strikethrough
    - Closed/merged: strikethrough, with a reason at the end of line 1.


Assumptions:
- You are ok with having an orphaned branch called "pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding" in your branch managed by pully.
  - This is to avoid needing external infrastructure in order to get this functionality. Less complexity and less risks.
  - Cache/artifacting in github doesnt work reliably/isnt easy to share accross workflows. An orphan branch is more technology agnostic.

- You have the custom slackmojis (get them from https://slackmojis.com for instance):
  1. :github-approve:
  2. :github-changes-requested:
  3. :github-closed:
  4. :github-merged:
  5. :github-pr:
  6. :code-review:

## Future ideas
See the github issues board: https://github.com/N35N0M/pully/issues

## Ideas tested but not working
- Aligning the sections across messages: unsuccessful because slack doesnt use monospacing, causing alignmentissues.

Commit message:

Try autocreating .pullystate branch with existing solution on the web

README.md, after:

- [Pully](#pully)
  - [Getting started](#getting-started)
  - [Core design guidelines](#core-design-guidelines)
  - [Future ideas](#future-ideas)
  - [Ideas tested but not working](#ideas-tested-but-not-working)


# Pully
Get an overview of PR statuses in slack in a high-paced environment.

This is a CI job that constantly updates one minimal slack message in a single channel per PR. 

This is self-contained in the repo, and required no extra running services if you are using Github (and could be easily extended to Gitlab/other Git vendors with a CI platform).

NOTE READ THIS: that pully will store some information in a dedicated orphan branch, called `.pullystate`. This could potentially become flattened and forcepushed in the future, and is not meant as a complete record. This is to avoid needing to have readpermissions for slack channels (TODO: verify that write/update permission does not imply read rights).

## Getting started
1. Create a dedicated slack channel for pully to post to, note down its channel ID. You can find this by opening the slack channel in your browser. The URL should have format `something.slack.com/client/<clientid>/<channelid>`
2. Generate a slack token with permission to write to this channel, and nothing else preferrably (not read either).
3. Configure your repo's secrets:
    - `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`: The channel id of the channel you made in step 1.
    - `PULLY_SLACK_TOKEN`: The slack token with permission to post to only `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`, that you made in step 2.
4. (Optional, omitting this will lead to github usernames being posted) Commit the initial `.pully/userconfig.json` to your project's default branch (typically main), where you specify optional information about the authors. If you do not wish to share this information, the only effect is that the slack message wont @-mention requested reviewers, and we will use github usernames instead of first names when reporting approvals and change requests. 
```
{
  "known_authors": [
    {
      "githubUsername": "kristoffer-monsen-bulder",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris",
      "slackmoji": ":+1:"
    },
    {
      "githubUsername": "N35N0M",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris",
      "slackmoji": ":+1:"
    }
  ]
}
```
6. Add the pully github action to the `.github/workflows` folder of your repo's main branch. An example is found in this repos self-test, `pully/.github/workflows/pully.yml`. Replace the self-test commit SHA with a github release tag (or its SHA, to guarantee that the content doesnt change): https://github.com/N35N0M/pully/tags
7. Create a new PR, the pully github action should run when you create the PR and post to your slack channel.

## Core design guidelines
- One slack message per unique PR
  - If title changes: Edit the original slack message
  - If title is longer than 100 characters: truncate title in slack message
- Line format: `<branch state emoji> <Repo fullname> <PR title> <PR link displayed as repo/pr-number> (<line diff>) by <author nickname (no @mention)> [| <Approved emoji> [... list of approver firstnames]] [| <Changes requested emoji> [... list of change requester firstnames]] [| <Review requested emoji [... list of reviewers]>]`
    - Why branch state emoji: breaks up text, and gives a quick overview of what is open and closed in a dense list of PR messages.
    - Why repo fullname? Need to know which repo it happens in. Not all reviewers are neccesarily familiar with all repos.
    - Why PR title and link? Need to know what the PR is about, and easily access it.
    - Why linediff? Gives potential reviewers idea of how large the PR is, and how low hanging it is.
    - Why author? Give kudos
    - Why approve list? Make it clear if the PR has been approved, and by who
    - Why change request list? Make it clear that the PR is blocked by requested changes, and by whom it was requested
    - Why list of review requests? Give review requests a slack notification the first time, to make it clear that action is required

- Communicate PR status with strikethrough:
    - Active: no strikethrough
    - Closed/merged: strikethrough, with a reason at the end of line 1.


Assumptions:
- You are ok with having an orphaned branch called "pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding" in your branch managed by pully.
  - Cache/artifacting in github doesnt work reliably/isnt easy to share accross workflows. An orphan branch is more technology agnostic.

- You have the custom slackmojis (get them from https://slackmojis.com for instance):
  1. :github-approve:
  2. :github-changes-requested:
  3. :github-closed:
  4. :github-merged:
  5. :github-pr:
  6. :code-review:

## Future ideas
See the github issues board: https://github.com/N35N0M/pully/issues

## Ideas tested but not working
- Aligning the sections across messages: unsuccessful because slack doesnt use monospacing, causing alignmentissues.
