.github/workflows/pully/README.md, before:

# Pully
Get an overview of PR statuses in slack in a high-paced environment.

This is a CI job that constantly updates one minimal slack message in a single channel per PR. 

This is self-contained in the repo, and required no extra running services if you are using Github (and could be easily extended to Gitlab/other Git vendors with a CI platform).

## Getting started
1. Create a dedicated slack channel for pully to post to, note down its channel ID..
2. Generate a slack token with permission to write to this channel, and nothin else.
3. Configure your repo's secrets:
    - `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`: The channel id of the channel you made in step 1.
    - `PULLY_SLACK_TOKEN`: The slack token with permission to post to only `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`, that you made in step 2.
4. Create an orphan branch called `pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding` by running `git checkout --orphan pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding`, this is where pully will stash its state. 
\
\
It's important that any branch protection rules allows GITHUB_TOKEN to write to this branch. **Note that the state is readable for everyone if this is a public repo.** The info present in the state is:
    - Name of the github repository (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - Pull request numbers in the repository (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - Github usernames of reviewers in those PRs (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - The review status the users gave (approved/changes requested/review requested | if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - The message timestamp of the original slack message per pr (not considered sensitive. You cant do anything with this timestamp without read/write permission to the slack channel, and you need to know the slack channel)
    - (Optional): The first name and the slack ID of github authors. **This will only be part of the state if committed to the state in step 5**
5. Commit the initial pullydata.json to the `pully-persistant-state-do-not-use-for-coding`, where you specify optional information about the authors. If you do not wish to share this information, the only effect is that the slack message wont @-mention requested reviewers, and we will use github usernames instead of first names when reporting approvals and change requests. 
```
{
  "repodata": {
  },
  "known_authors": [
    {
      "githubUsername": "kristoffer-monsen-bulder",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris"
    },
    {
      "githubUsername": "N35N0M",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Core design guidelines:
- One slack message per unique PR
  - If title changes: Edit the original slack message
  - If title is longer than 100 characters: truncate title in slack message
- Line format: `<branch state emoji> <Repo fullname> <PR title> <PR link displayed as repo/pr-number> (<line diff>) by <author nickname (no @mention)> [| <Approved emoji> [... list of approver firstnames]] [| <Changes requested emoji> [... list of change requester firstnames]] [| <Review requested emoji [... list of reviewers]>]`
    - Why branch state emoji: breaks up text, and gives a quick overview of what is open and closed in a dense list of PR messages.
    - Why repo fullname? Need to know which repo it happens in. Not all reviewers are neccesarily familiar with all repos.
    - Why PR title and link? Need to know what the PR is about, and easily access it.
    - Why linediff? Gives potential reviewers idea of how large the PR is, and how low hanging it is.
    - Why author? Give kudos
    - Why approve list? Make it clear if the PR has been approved, and by who
    - Why change request list? Make it clear that the PR is blocked by requested changes, and by whom it was requested
    - Why list of review requests? Give review requests a slack notification the first time, to make it clear that action is required

- Communicate PR status with strikethrough:
    - Active: no strikethrough
    - Closed/merged: strikethrough, with a reason at the end of line 1.


Future fluff:
- Post a summary every morning of PRs that are still left hanging (With link to the existing slack message to avoid duplicated state?)

Assumptions:
- You are ok with having an orphaned branch called "pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding" in your branch managed by pully.
  - This is to avoid needing external infrastructure in order to get this functionality. Less complexity and less risks.
  - Cache/artifacting in github doesnt work reliably/isnt easy to share accross workflows. An orphan branch is more technology agnostic.

- You have the custom slackmojis (get them from https://slackmojis.com for instance):
  1. :github-approve:
  2. :github-changes-requested:
  3. :github-closed:
  4. :github-merged:
  5. :github-pr:
  6. :code-review:

Commit message:

Remove accidentally committed file; add support for PR edit, pr draft->review and pr review->draft    (#3)
* Remove mock file

* Update README

* Handle some more events

* Ensure that prdata struct is initialized before accessing

* Try adding an escape sequence to the arrow right so it doesnt break the PR link in the slack message

* Try again

* Remove right arrow for now

* Use replaceall

* Handle the draft state

* Add converted_to_draft to ci rule

* Update slack handle, should maybe make this customizable

.github/workflows/pully/README.md, after:

# Pully
Get an overview of PR statuses in slack in a high-paced environment.

This is a CI job that constantly updates one minimal slack message in a single channel per PR. 

This is self-contained in the repo, and required no extra running services if you are using Github (and could be easily extended to Gitlab/other Git vendors with a CI platform).

## Getting started
1. Create a dedicated slack channel for pully to post to, note down its channel ID..
2. Generate a slack token with permission to write to this channel, and nothin else.
3. Configure your repo's secrets:
    - `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`: The channel id of the channel you made in step 1.
    - `PULLY_SLACK_TOKEN`: The slack token with permission to post to only `PULLY_SLACK_CHANNEL`, that you made in step 2.
4. Create an orphan branch called `pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding` by running `git checkout --orphan pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding`, this is where pully will stash its state. 
\
\
It's important that any branch protection rules allows GITHUB_TOKEN to write to this branch. **Note that the state is readable for everyone if this is a public repo.** The info present in the state is:
    - Name of the github repository (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - Pull request numbers in the repository (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - Github usernames of reviewers in those PRs (if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - The review status the users gave (approved/changes requested/review requested | if you can reach the repo, you know this already)
    - The message timestamp of the original slack message per pr (not considered sensitive. You cant do anything with this timestamp without read/write permission to the slack channel, and you need to know the slack channel)
    - (Optional): The first name and the slack ID of github authors. **This will only be part of the state if committed to the state in step 5**
5. Commit the initial pullydata.json to the `pully-persistant-state-do-not-use-for-coding`, where you specify optional information about the authors. If you do not wish to share this information, the only effect is that the slack message wont @-mention requested reviewers, and we will use github usernames instead of first names when reporting approvals and change requests. 
```
{
  "repodata": {
  },
  "known_authors": [
    {
      "githubUsername": "kristoffer-monsen-bulder",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris"
    },
    {
      "githubUsername": "N35N0M",
      "slackMemberId": "U08FWFQPT60",
      "firstName": "Kris"
    }
  ]
}
```
6. Review the contents of `.github/workflows` in this repo, and merge in these files to your default branch in your repo to get going (TODO dedicated github/gitlab actions)

## Core design guidelines:
- One slack message per unique PR
  - If title changes: Edit the original slack message
  - If title is longer than 100 characters: truncate title in slack message
- Line format: `<branch state emoji> <Repo fullname> <PR title> <PR link displayed as repo/pr-number> (<line diff>) by <author nickname (no @mention)> [| <Approved emoji> [... list of approver firstnames]] [| <Changes requested emoji> [... list of change requester firstnames]] [| <Review requested emoji [... list of reviewers]>]`
    - Why branch state emoji: breaks up text, and gives a quick overview of what is open and closed in a dense list of PR messages.
    - Why repo fullname? Need to know which repo it happens in. Not all reviewers are neccesarily familiar with all repos.
    - Why PR title and link? Need to know what the PR is about, and easily access it.
    - Why linediff? Gives potential reviewers idea of how large the PR is, and how low hanging it is.
    - Why author? Give kudos
    - Why approve list? Make it clear if the PR has been approved, and by who
    - Why change request list? Make it clear that the PR is blocked by requested changes, and by whom it was requested
    - Why list of review requests? Give review requests a slack notification the first time, to make it clear that action is required

- Communicate PR status with strikethrough:
    - Active: no strikethrough
    - Closed/merged: strikethrough, with a reason at the end of line 1.


Future fluff:
- Post a summary every morning of PRs that are still left hanging (With link to the existing slack message to avoid duplicated state?)

Assumptions:
- You are ok with having an orphaned branch called "pully-persistent-state-do-not-use-for-coding" in your branch managed by pully.
  - This is to avoid needing external infrastructure in order to get this functionality. Less complexity and less risks.
  - Cache/artifacting in github doesnt work reliably/isnt easy to share accross workflows. An orphan branch is more technology agnostic.

- You have the custom slackmojis (get them from https://slackmojis.com for instance):
  1. :github-approve:
  2. :github-changes-requested:
  3. :github-closed:
  4. :github-merged:
  5. :github-pr:
  6. :code-review:
